[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to Beyond Belief.
Samantha Fey with us, has
had precognitive dreams
and spiritual visitations
since childhood.
After foreseeing her
ex-husband's near death,
she began using her prophetic
gifts to help others.
She's authored
"Heavenly Alliance"
and co-hosted the podcasts
Psychic Teachers and Enlightened
Empaths.
Samantha, welcome back.
>>SAMANTHA FEY:
Thank you, George.
I'm so happy to be here.
>>NOORY: How have you been?
>>FEY: I've been great.
I've been very, very busy.
Excited to have
this new book out
and thrilled to be
talking with you.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in this field?
>>FEY: This field.
Well, it definitely
was not planned.
It was not part of my plan to
be in this world of woo-woo.
But I was teaching English at
our local community college,
and I was married, and
I had little children.
And I was married to a
police officer at the time.
And I kept having
these dreams that he
would be shot in the neck.
And about a month later,
that unfortunately
came to pass when he
apprehended a criminal.
And I just kept thinking I'd had
strange, intuitive, precognitive
things happening to
me my whole life,
and I'd always pushed them
down and turned away from them.
I was raised Catholic,
and I was trying
to be a good Catholic girl.
But after that very, very
traumatic experience,
I just couldn't
deny it any longer.
So I started taking intuitive
development classes,
and it just all
unfolded from there.
>>NOORY: These
precognitive dreams
that you have had
since childhood,
do they continue today?
>>FEY: Yes, they do.
And it's not like
a nightly basis.
Wouldn't that be
nice if I could just
fall asleep every night and--
>>NOORY: Sometimes.
>>FEY: It's just
sometimes, and it's usually
really big, important things.
And it's definitely been a
compass for me in my life.
And so now, I'm just very
passionate about telling people
that this world
of intuition isn't
as weird and woo-woo and
metaphysically out there
as I think mainstream society
would lead us to believe.
That it really is a tool
that we can use to help
enrich our lives.
>>NOORY: You've had visitations
from light beings, too,
haven't you?
>>FEY: When I was a little girl,
I had this very strange thing.
I didn't tell anybody about
it except my older sister.
But when I was trying
to fall asleep at night,
I would see these--
I can only describe
them as light beings,
and they would just kind
of come out of the walls.
And they would tell me things
to make me feel better.
We moved halfway through
my second grade year,
and it was really a
troubling time to move.
And I was being picked on and I
was having a really hard time.
And these light beings
appeared, and they told me
that the boy who
was picking on me
was going through a difficult
time in his own life.
His parents were
divorcing and that it
should stop in a couple
of weeks, and it did.
So I had just
several experiences
when I was a little
girl with these beings.
And I don't know.
Were they guides?
Were they angels?
They were faceless.
They were just light.
>>NOORY: Did they look winged?
>>FEY: They did not look winged.
I couldn't make out any shape.
It was just very comforting
kind of globs of light
that would sit on the end of
my bed and just comfort me.
Sometimes, they would just sit
with me and say prayers with me.
But it was always
gentle and kind.
It wasn't scary.
>>NOORY: And then
when you were 16,
you had a visitation
or a dream of a monk.
>>FEY: Yeah.
So I often saw a ghost
as a child growing up,
and it always terrified me.
But when I was 16,
I woke up in my bed,
wide awake at 3:00
in the morning,
and there was an older gentleman
dressed in the traditional
monk's uniform, with the
brown robe and the rope belts.
And he looked very
kind, and gentle,
and nothing scary
or threatening.
But I think for anyone
to wake up and just
see a stranger in their
bedroom is terrifying.
And I had seen ghosts
before, as I said.
They were always see-through.
And this man was fully formed.
He was not see-through.
And I said to him,
what do you want?
Why are you here?
And he didn't say anything.
He just smiled.
And I tried squeezing
my eyes and waking up,
but I was fully awake.
And finally, I just got out
of bed and I got on my knees
and I said, God, I don't
know why I see these things.
I don't know why I sense these
things, but it terrifies me,
and I want it to stop.
And when I opened my
eyes, he was gone.
And I didn't see another
ghost or anything
scary for a long,
long time after that.
>>NOORY: How would you rate
your intuition at that age?
>>FEY: I would rate it
as just something that
was pretty strong, but
I didn't understand it.
I didn't know how
to deal with it.
And frankly, it scared me.
It made me feel
different and strange.
I remember having a dream
when I was in the fifth grade
that my teacher was
going to be changed,
that she was going to leave.
And I did tell my
parents and my sisters,
and at the end of the week,
that teacher was let go,
and we had a new teacher.
I would have dreams that we
would have a pop quiz in class
the next day, and I'd go to
school and we'd have a pop quiz.
And I understand now that I
should have been like, wow, this
is kind of cool that I can
do this, but at the time,
it really scared me.
And when I would talk
to my parents about it,
they would say,
oh, Samantha, you
have such a beautiful
imagination.
>>NOORY: Did your religion
have anything to do with it?
>>FEY: Yeah, definitely.
I think that being
raised Catholic helped me
with my intuition and
hindered me with my intuition
because I think the beautiful
thing about being Catholic
is we're taught that there's all
these different tools out there
that we can go to for help.
We don't have to
just bother God.
We can go to saints and angels.
And so I think that leaves you
open to this world of intuition
and to understanding
that we have guides.
But in the same sense, the
church, my church anyway,
is against yoga, and reiki, and
tarot, and mediumship, and all
of that.
So it did make me feel like I
was going against the faith I
was raised in and that I always
found so much comfort in.
And I still do.
I still love going to church.
>>NOORY: You mentioned that you
saw a vision of your ex-husband
being shot.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And then he was shot.
>>NOORY: What happened to him?
>>FEY: He was in a coma
for quite a long time.
He had to go into a
physical rehab center.
It was difficult. He
still suffers today
from an anoxic brain injury.
So we've done-- we
went through years
and years and years of
recovery and therapy,
so he's much, much
better now, and he's
able to live a full life.
>>NOORY: Why have you
stopped doing readings?
>>FEY: Well, I stopped doing
readings a couple of years
ago, mainly because I
really wanted to focus
on teaching and writing.
I love this modality that
we all are interested in,
all of us who are here
watching Beyond Belief.
And yet, I feel that there are
very few teachers out there that
are focused solely on really
helping the person understand
the ethics of doing this
work, the huge honor of doing
this work.
I really think that when
you do readings for someone,
you are like a priest
or a therapist.
People really open
their soul to you.
And I kept seeing
a lot of readers
do it, to be honest,
kind of unethically.
And it really bothered
me, and I thought,
I really want to focus
on teaching people
how to open their
intuition and how
to share that light with others
in a way that is completely
moralistic and
ethical and authentic
and not just someone who's out
there to be the next James Van
Praagh or John
Edward, but someone
who's really doing this to do
the work for the right reason.
And so what I told God, I said,
God, I will still do readings
because I think that's
why I'm on this Earth,
but I just don't want to do it
in a business professional way.
So now, when I meet people,
and if I feel compelled to,
I will pass on a message.
>>NOORY: Or you do it for fun.
>>FEY: I wouldn't
say I do it for fun,
but when I'm called
to do it, I definitely
will pass on what I am getting.
>>NOORY: Your new book, of
course, deals a lot with this,
doesn't it?
>>FEY: Yes.
Yes.
Yeah, I'm so excited
to share this book.
It's something I've
been passionate about
for so long because a lot of
people will come to me and say,
I love everything that
you teach and write about.
However, what do we do?
What do we do with our faith
and our enthusiasm and our hope
and our love of
spirituality when
life decides to rain on you?
And so I wrote the book to
explain to people that life is--
we're not here to be happy.
We're not here to have
the happy ever after.
We're here to learn and grow
and polish off our rough edges.
And so the book is all about
understanding our soul plan
and why you're here,
why you have challenges,
and what your purpose is.
And so I've always called
this Earth a school.
I think it's like the
Harvard of universities.
And we're here on
this school of Earth
to really understand
and evolve and grow.
So every chapter--
>>NOORY: Well,
that's a good school.
>>FEY: It's a good school.
It's a hard school, but
it's an important one.
>>NOORY: You
mentioned soul plan.
What is that?
>>FEY: So I believe that before
we come to this lifetime,
that we sit down with
our guides and our angels
and we look at
aspects of ourself
that we haven't faced,
that we haven't challenged,
that we haven't
healed or resolved.
We look at the near misses
maybe we had in other lifetimes,
where we could have really
shone our light so bright.
And we take all of those missing
bits and pieces of information,
and we put it into a soul plan.
And it's like a blueprint when
you're trying to build a house,
right?
So it gives you the outline of
what it is you're here to do.
I don't think that we're
here for one purpose.
And I don't think
that when you really
examine your soul purpose, it's
not even a huge overarching soul
purpose.
I think we have many,
many soul purposes.
>>NOORY: Do these
purposes change?
>>FEY: I think they can
as we evolve and we grow.
And I think that our soul plan
can change and evolve, too.
I have a whole chapter
in the book on destiny
versus free will, because if
you think about a soul plan,
you might think,
well, wait a minute,
does that mean that everything
in my life is already pre-fated,
and I just have to ride it out?
I don't believe that.
I think that we carefully
orchestrate different marks
along our path that are
going to open up doors to us
and help us see our light.
I think the one thing that
bothers me so much about people
that I encounter is
they don't realize
how magical and beautiful
and special they are.
I think we're all trying
so hard to achieve
whatever this idea of success
is, whatever happiness is.
And I think people forget
that just by being kind
to someone, just by holding
the door open for someone,
just by passing on
a complement, you're
doing so much to grow your
soul and shine your light.
>>NOORY: That is so true.
You had a dream of your
mother's soul purpose.
What was that?
>>FEY: That was a
really impactful dream
experience I had, George.
So I had-- my
mother passed away,
but I had a very difficult
relationship with my mother,
to put it lightly.
She was a very angry woman.
She had a difficult
childhood, and she was--
>>NOORY: And took it out on you.
>>FEY: Yeah, she was
just not very maternal.
Never hugged or held hands
or that type of thing.
She loved us, but she just
didn't always show it.
>>NOORY: She didn't
know how to show it.
>>FEY: Yeah.
So I had this beautiful, really,
healing dream with her years
ago, where we were just
sitting at this table,
and she held my hands.
And that's what really made
me take notice in the dream
because like I said,
she would never
just hug you or hold your hand.
But she held both my hands,
and she said, Samantha,
how's this working out for you?
And I said, what, Mom?
What do you mean?
And she said, when you
asked me to incarnate and be
your mother in this
lifetime as a true bitch,
I agreed because I knew
it would help your soul.
But gosh, it's hard on me
being this angry all the time.
And I squeezed her hands,
and I said, I know--
>>NOORY: She knew it.
>>FEY: She knew it.
Her soul knew it.
And I said, I know, Mom.
I know.
I said, but it's
really helping me.
You have no idea.
And when I woke up, I thought,
oh, my gosh, did I pick my mom?
Did I choose to have a
difficult, cantankerous mother
on purpose?
And then I looked back and I
thought, well, yeah, of course,
I did, because I'm not going
to say I'm unstoppable,
but it's made me incredibly
strong and very, very empowered,
knowing that I have learned
how to love myself by myself.
>>NOORY: Can you
tell if an individual
is having a tough life?
>>FEY: Sure.
>>NOORY: Just by their soul?
>>FEY: I think you can tell
it by the way they respond
to people in need, the way
they talk about themselves,
the way they treat themselves.
I think often, people who are
the most loath to ask for help
and reach out to
connect with others
are the ones that we have
to really, really reach out
to the most ourselves
because too many people are
afraid of being vulnerable,
of asking for help,
of really showing
their weak spots.
I have a chapter in the book on
really understanding your shadow
side, of really facing
those core inner fears that
are holding us back.
>>NOORY: How do we recognize
our soul's purpose?
How do we know what
we're here for?
>>FEY: I think you have to
look at a couple of things.
First of all, you want to
look at childhood interest.
You want to look at those things
that always drew your attention
when you were a child.
You also want to
look at any activity
that you do throughout
your day or your week
where you lose time, where
you just completely aren't
aware of where the time went
because you're so involved
in the moment.
And if you do that--
also, you want
to pray if it's in
your belief system.
I know for me, when I was having
all those precognitive dreams
amping up right around the time
of my ex-husband's shooting,
I kept saying to God,
use me to do your will,
use me to do your will.
That was my mantra
over and over and over.
God, use me to do your will.
And all of this world
of purpose and--
it's just been such
a gift and a pleasure
and an honor to be able
to reach people the way
I have with my intuition.
All of that opened up and
unfolded from saying that one
simple prayer.
So I think it's a
couple of things
to find your soul purpose.
>>NOORY: You had a teacher
that left you a letter
a long time ago.
Tell us about that.
>>FEY: Yeah, I think
I was in kindergarten,
and I came across this paper
where she had written--
you get your little
review from your teacher
throughout the year, and she
had written a note and said,
Samantha was the only one in
class who knew any ghost stories
and was able to tell them well.
And I thought, oh, my gosh,
even back when I was five,
I was interested in and
all this fun, occult stuff,
and I was able to write fun
ghost stories and share ghost
stories.
So it was really all there
in that one little paragraph
that she wrote.
>>NOORY: Was there anybody
else in your family
that had this gift?
>>FEY: Well, yes.
So my grandmother
was actually called
the Irish witch of Long Island.
>>NOORY: The Irish
witch of Long Island.
>>FEY: Yes, because
she would know things.
My mother was also
incredibly intuitive,
but I don't think she would
have called herself that.
When I was a kid, she
told my sisters and me
that she had a little pet bird
called Pedro, a blue bird,
and he would follow us wherever
we went and report back to her.
So every day, she'd give
me $0.50, $1 for milk,
and she'd say, Samantha,
do not buy chocolate milk.
You already have too much sugar.
And, George, I swear
to god, the one time I
would get chocolate milk,
I'd come home, and she'd go,
Pedro told me that you
got chocolate milk today.
>>NOORY: Little
bird spied on you.
>>FEY: She knew.
She did that our
whole childhood,
to the point where when
I was in high school
and my boyfriend was about
to give me my first kiss,
I actually looked
around for a blue bird
because I didn't
want my mom to know.
>>NOORY: He was on your
boyfriend's shoulder.
Soul plan, can it alter?
Can you change it?
>>FEY: Yes, you definitely can.
If life is on a
path that you're not
enjoying, that is not
giving you pleasure
or worthiness or a sense of
pride, you can change it.
I think it comes back to really
focusing on who you are right
now and asking
yourself, am I trying
to achieve A, B, or
C because I want it,
because my parents
expect me of it,
because my family needs
me to have this job?
It really comes down to
getting authentic and true
about who you are and what you
want and what's best for you.
It's something, Dr. Budd Hopkins
called sacred selfishness.
And I really love that
term because we're
taught to believe that being
selfish is awful and wrong.
But I think when you
talk about it in terms
of sacred selfishness
and just focusing on you
and what your heart
is telling you,
that's when you can start
to amend your soul plan.
And that's when, really,
becoming a co-creator
with your life comes into play,
and that's when life gets fun.
>>NOORY: What is shadow work?
>>FEY: Shadow work is a way
of really examining things
in your life that-- things
about your personality
that you don't want to see,
that you don't want to address.
And yet, anything that you
don't address in your own psyche
is going to hold you back.
I mean, Jesus in the
Lost Gospel says,
if you do not bring forth what
is within you, what you do not
bring forth will destroy you.
Even Jung, he said, until you
make the unconscious conscious,
it will run your life,
and you will call it fate.
So it's about looking at those
inner aspects of ourselves
that we don't want to see.
And, again, you want to go back
to childhood to look at that.
So, for example, my daughters
make fun of me all the time
because I love
getting my hair done,
and getting my nails done, and--
>>NOORY: What's wrong with that?
>>FEY: All of that stuff.
They're like, mom,
you're so vain.
But I thought about
growing up with my mom, who
always prized her children
for being beautiful.
So, of course, I'm going to
have a shadow side that's going
to include a bit of vanity.
But I'm OK with that now
because I've faced it, right?
I have this vulnerability,
where if I'm talking to someone
or I'm doing one of my own shows
and I don't know everything
about that topic, I'll tend
to feel a little insecure.
And I realize that came from
my dad, who always praised me
for being intelligent.
So when you look at the labels
you were given as a child,
and I think everyone who's
grown up with multiple siblings
is labeled in some way, that
will help you figure out
what your shadow side is.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
The soul, is it difficult to
pick a life that a soul picks?
>>FEY: Well, I think
that it can be difficult.
I don't think we
always pick easy souls.
I look at easy lifetimes.
I look at souls in all of
these, almost like, grades.
So if you know someone who has a
really easy life, great parents,
super healthy, breezed
through school,
always popular, got a
job right out of college,
they might be like
a first-grader
on the timeline of souls.
They might be a new soul, and
so that's all they can handle
are the little challenges.
But if you meet someone who
has a really difficult life,
terrible parents, maybe
no parents at all,
maybe abusive parents.
Maybe they couldn't afford
any type of schooling.
Maybe they hate their job.
Maybe they've been married
three or four times.
Maybe they have
health challenges.
They might be a PhD-level
grad student soul,
whereas they're ready to have
the harder, heavier stuff happen
to them in their lifetime
because their soul is prepared,
and they've been here and
done this many, many times.
>>NOORY: Do we choose
our own parents?
>>FEY: I believe we do.
>>NOORY: How do we do that?
>>FEY: I think we do
that with our guides
when we're getting
ready to come to Earth
and we're creating
our soul plan.
Yes.
And I think we're given choices.
And what's fascinating,
if you do psychic--
what was-- there was
a great show on years
ago called Psychic Kids, and
they would talk about this
all the time.
Dr. Ian Stevenson talked
about this in his research.
Children will talk about
choosing their parents.
And your children might
have said that to you.
I know each of my girls talked
about choosing me as their mom
when they were little.
Usually happens when
they're under four.
My youngest daughter said
to me that God came to her
and showed her three
sets of parents,
and she said she picked us.
>>NOORY: Well, if I picked my
parents, I did a great job.
>>FEY: Yes, it
sounds like you did.
Yeah.
But some of us will pick parents
that maybe aren't so great,
but it's always for a reason.
My favorite story
that Wayne Dyer tells
is how he says that God came to
him before he was incarnating
to Earth and said,
Wayne, what do you
want to teach this time around?
And he said, resiliency.
I want to teach people
to be resilient.
And so God said
to him, all right,
we're going to have to give
you a father who abandons you,
another crappy
stepfather figure,
until you learn
forgiveness and resilience
and then you can teach it.
And so Wayne always
said that when
his mom was in the hospital
giving birth to him,
Mr. Dyer's father was at
their house cleaning her out,
even took her wedding
rings and left.
>>NOORY: Stole it?
>>FEY: Yep, just
left, abandoned them.
And so this was in the
late 1930s, of course,
before we had social services.
So poor Mrs. Dyer had to
put Wayne and his brother
in an orphanage
for several years
until she could
afford to raise them.
So, of course, he was
going to go through
adulthood with some
bitterness and anger.
But once he learned
to let that go,
he was able to write his
first of many bestsellers
and help inspire--
he still inspires
all of us today.
And so I think some of us
choose not-so-great parents,
but we do it for a
reason because it's
helping to grow our
souls and helping
us to really encourage and
bring more light to the world.
>>NOORY: Well, talking
about parents, last time
you were with us, you had
some audio from your father.
And he has passed now, right?
>>FEY: Yes.
>>NOORY: Let's listen
in on some of it.
>>FEY: OK, well, I should say
this is audio-- my father passed
from complications connected to
Alzheimer's, and so he really
didn't know who we
were most of the time.
But he had this one
moment of lucidity,
and I was so
astounded by it that I
had to record it on my phone.
So the audio quality
is not superb,
but you will hear what he
was able to see and encounter
about the other side
before he crossed over.
>>NOORY: All right,
let's listen.
>>DAD: I go up, up in
the air around 6 o'clock.
I've got two places.
It will happen, not today.
>>FEY: Not today?
What's the other
place look like?
You say you live in two places.
What's your other
place look like?
>>DAD: No one hurts me.
They feel like there's
something about me.
But I'm getting very close.
>>FEY: You're
getting very close?
>>DAD: Yeah, I've got two of me.
Two of me's.
Soul-- the soul
goes out, goes out.
>>FEY: You'll stay here, and
then your soul will go there?
>>DAD: Yeah.
I don't really know
what to do or anything.
>>FEY: They haven't told you?
>>DAD: No.
I get it sleeping.
>>FEY: When you're sleeping?
>>DAD: Sleeping.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>DAD: After 8:00
or so, maybe 9:00.
I go to sleep.
All of a sudden,
bang, now, I'm there.
>>FEY: You're there?
>>DAD: Yeah.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>DAD: This whole place,
at night, there's you.
>>FEY: Me?
I'm there?
>>DAD: Yeah, and my father, he
said, you are going over there.
What time is it?
>>FEY: Almost 5 o'clock.
>>DAD: 5 o'clock?
So that's when it
starts, and he told me.
>>FEY: What'd he tell you?
>>DAD: He'll take
everything off of me.
Everything.
All of this.
And put me in over
there some place.
I just went to him.
>>FEY: You went to him?
And what'd he say?
>>DAD: I have a great place.
Don't worry about things.
>>FEY: Good.
>>DAD: It's hard for
me to walk and talk.
I asked my father, why
are you doing this?
>>FEY: Yeah.
What did he say?
>>DAD: Be nice to the people
and don't worry when it comes.
>>NOORY: How do you feel
about that, Samantha,
when you hear him again?
>>FEY: Well, it's
definitely emotional,
but it makes me so
happy because I do know
that he's in a beautiful place.
And when he would have these
rare moments of lucidity, which
actually happened quite more
frequently before he passed,
suddenly, he would
always say that at night,
when he went to sleep, he
would see me and his father.
And when he mentioned
his dog, Slugger,
which was his childhood
dog, I thought, wow,
there's got to be something
to that because he had not
talked about that childhood dog
in a really, really long time.
And he said that
they were always
trying to get him to go up
the stairs and go with him,
but he wasn't ready.
And so it just makes
me happy to know
that there is a time for each
of us, and we never die alone.
And when we do go
over, our family
is there, even our
childhood pets are there,
and that they're making a
place for him where he's happy.
I loved when he
said they're going
to take all of this off of me
because my dad was always--
we called him doubting Thomas
because he was raised Catholic,
as well, and was
taught by the Jesuits.
And he was also
always interested
in this world of past lives,
and crystals, and yoga,
and all of that.
And he would feel
so guilty, guilty
that he wasn't a
good Catholic, guilty
that he wasn't doing
enough as a father,
guilty that-- he was
always feeling guilty.
And that always troubled
me because I thought
he was such a great man.
And I was happy when
they said they were going
to take that all off of him.
I knew exactly
what he was saying.
>>NOORY: What do you
think of spirit guides
compared to angels?
>>FEY: I think that angels are
definitely watching over us,
but I feel that they only
intervene when we're really
off our soul plan, right?
Or if someone and
their soul plan
is going to impact our life
path, and it's not preordained.
It's not on the destiny
of our soul path.
They have to come in.
I think that's why you see a
lot of angel stories around car
accidents and things like that.
Whereas spirit guides are with
us every day, day in and day
out.
So whenever I'm
teaching about this,
I always compare, spirit guides
are like your classroom teacher.
When you're in the
fourth grade, you
saw your classroom teacher
every day, seven hours a day.
And angels are
like the principal,
and you only saw the principal
when stuff was really
getting important.
So they're there
overseeing everything,
but I don't believe that they're
in the nitty gritty with us
every single day.
Whereas spirit guides, they've
lived many lifetimes before,
and they definitely want to
help us to get the most out
of this time in the
School of Earth.
>>NOORY: Remember the movie
It's a Wonderful Life with Jimmy
Stewart?
>>FEY: Yes.
>>NOORY: They sent the angel
Clarence down to help him.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Does that happen?
>>FEY: Yes, I do think that
we have angels that come down
and help us for sure.
And I think we
have spirit guides.
And I think we have
different types of guides
that will come and help us.
But definitely, if you're at
a moment-- if you remember,
Clarence only came when he was
ready to jump off that bridge
and take his own life.
And so that's what I mean
about how angels will intervene
at those really dark nights
of those souls or those times
where we're about to
make a choice that's
not a part of our soul plan.
>>NOORY: Do they
stay with us always?
>>FEY: I believe that
they are with us.
I don't know if
they're with us always.
God bless if my angel and
guide is with me always.
They must-- I mean,
can you imagine?
That must be a difficult job.
>>NOORY: Do you know that
poem, Footprints in the Sand?
>>FEY: Yes.
>>NOORY: It's a classic.
>>FEY: Yes, it is.
>>NOORY: For people who don't
know it, I'll paraphrase it.
It's about a person who
feels as if God let him down.
And he talks about
where he needed
God and he's
walking in the sand,
and he could only
see one footprint,
which he thought was his.
And God spoke to him
and said, my child,
it was in your moment of
despair that I carried you,
so you were seeing
God's footprints.
>>FEY: Yes, because he
was carrying that man.
Isn't that beautiful?
>>NOORY: I remember
that as a kid.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: My mom pulled it out.
>>FEY: Yeah, it's
such a great reminder,
because there are times in our
lives where we feel so alone,
and we feel as though
there's no one out there.
And yet, that's not true.
That couldn't be
further from the truth.
They are always with us.
And that's something
I tried to always get
through to any students or
listeners to my own show
that I'm talking to.
And, George, I was thinking a
lot about this this morning.
I think one of the
main reasons why
I wrote my book was for my dad
and for people like my dad, who
go in and out of faith, who
are constantly questioning
and wondering, OK,
yeah, but if we
do have angels and
guides, then why am I
going through this
challenging experience?
Why am I having this
health diagnoses?
And I think when
you start to look
at it from the lens
of Earth as a school
and not as just a lifetime,
where you're here to just make
money and have fun
and fall in love,
that it's so much more
than that, I think, then,
that you can see, of
course, you're never alone.
It's just a lot of
times, when we're
going through those
dark nights of the soul,
they're like final exams in
your high school physics class,
and you can't raise your hand
and say to your teacher, hey,
can you come over and tell
me the answer to number 18?
You've got to go
through that test alone.
And yet, that teacher is still
sitting there at that desk,
monitoring, and
watching, and hoping
that you all do your best.
It's the same with
our guides and angels.
>>NOORY: Are there
different types of guides?
>>FEY: Yes.
Yes.
I believe that we
have one guide that's
with us from the
beginning to the end,
but we also have guides
that will come and go,
depending on what
we're going through.
So if you choose
to have children,
you might have a
parenting guide.
If you are going
through a health issue,
you might have a guide
come and help you
with compassion and
healing through that event.
If you're looking
for a job, you might
have a guide come that
helps you with communication
and putting your
best foot forward.
So you have, I kind of
call them assistant guides.
They're not on your
team the whole journey,
but they will come to your
team when you need them.
>>NOORY: You had
a dog that died.
>>FEY: Yes, my dog, Lily,
a little Yorkshire terrier.
She was my little buddy.
She passed away three weeks ago.
>>NOORY: But she gave
you a sign, didn't she?
>>FEY: Yeah, she did.
It was absolutely beautiful.
She was very old, and so
we knew it was her time,
and we had the vet
come to the house.
And my oldest daughter was away.
She's graduated college and
lives in a different city.
And she texted us and said,
I asked Lily to show us
Lily flowers as a sign of her.
And I said, that's so beautiful.
And the very next
day, her best friend
had Lily flowers mailed to her.
And I thought, isn't
that beautiful?
And I just think it's
such a great reminder
that when we want confirmation
and validation that our loved
ones have gone on to
a different dimension,
we can call it heaven, the
other side, what have you,
if you ask them for specific
signs to show you, they will.
>>NOORY: What are our
allies on the other side?
>>FEY: So I believe
that our allies
are our spirit guides
and our angels,
but also our loved ones who have
gone before us, because they
are over there and they
are going to help us, too.
And we can ask them
for their help.
You have to be careful about
who you ask for that help.
>>NOORY: Why?
>>FEY: Well, for example,
when my mom was dying,
she knew she was
dying in the hospital.
And one of the last
things she said to me
was, Samantha, when I get to
heaven, I'm going to help you.
And I thought, no
truer words were said,
George, because let me tell
you, Jesus himself could not
ignore my mother.
She would be like,
are you kidding?
This girl needs
this done, and she
needs to go back on George's
show, and she would get it done.
Whereas my dad was so
kind and soft-spoken.
I don't know that
I would call him
if I needed certain
help with really
getting loud stuff
noticed about my path.
So you want to be
mindful of who you're
calling on for assistance.
But if you do ask your loved
ones who have gone before you
to help you, they will.
My great grandmother, for
example, came to this country
alone with three children,
was able to start a business.
So when I started doing my
own entrepreneurial stuff,
I definitely called
on her for help.
So you want to think
about the people
on the other side who
have gone before you
and really solicit them through
prayer to intervene and help
you.
>>NOORY: Is there anything the
allies cannot help us with?
>>FEY: Yes, there's a lot
they cannot help us with.
If something is in our
path, it's in our soul plan,
and it's going to happen,
they cannot change that.
Take, for example,
my former husband
being shot in the line of duty.
I really feel, for
many, many reasons,
that was part of
his destined path
because it's helped
him grow a lot.
It's reshaped our entire family.
So even if he had
asked his grandfather
to always protect him
and keep him safe,
I don't think they could have
prevented that from happening.
>>NOORY: It was destiny.
>>FEY: It was destiny.
>>NOORY: In a bad
way, unfortunately.
>>FEY: Right.
Right.
So I think some things in our
life, they're going to happen,
no matter what.
But even during
those moments, there
are so many things
our loved ones
can do to let us know that
they're with us and giving us
support and encouragement.
I mean, every step of the way
through his journey of healing,
we were led to the best doctors,
to some wonderful healing
modalities.
And I really believe that
was all divinely guided.
>>NOORY: So do you believe
that there are some things that
our allies cannot help us
with or won't help us with?
Big difference.
>>FEY: There is a big difference
there, and it could be both.
I think that if we
ask for that help--
I mean, think about,
George, if you're
on the other side
100 years from now,
and one of your grandchildren
says, hey, Grandpa George,
can you help me get
into this college?
I mean, aren't you going
to do everything you
can to really make that work?
It's going to be hard to say no.
So I think that when you really
humbly pray to any higher
being that's within your
belief alignment system,
but especially when you ask
your loved ones to assist you,
they're going to
do what they can,
unless it's off your soul plan.
Now, they can't
prevent certain things,
but like I said before, they
can come in and bring comfort,
guidance, people that can help
us get through that challenging
time.
So it's always a good idea to
call on all of your allies.
Look, we all need all
the help we can get.
This is a hard school.
>>NOORY: When something happens,
Samantha, is it our destiny,
or have we developed it
on our own free will?
>>FEY: I think it depends.
It can be either.
You have to look
at the situation.
If you're making a
series of bad choices
and then something
bad comes out of that,
I think that's part
of your free will.
But if you're just going
along through your life,
and you're doing
the best you can
every single day,
and disaster strikes,
I think very often, that can
be something that has been
preplanned into your soul plan.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
experienced an event
that was destined to help you?
>>FEY: Yes, I think I've had
several that have happened.
One of the first ones
I mentioned in the book
sounds very subtle, and yet
it was very profound for me.
When I was 14 years old,
my dad entered rehab
for a drinking addiction, and
we were all very, very proud
of him.
But it was definitely
a challenging time.
And I remember my mom and
I drove up to the center
to see him.
And on the left
were all the adults
and on the right of
this beautiful campus
were all teenagers my age.
And I said--
>>NOORY: Kids of the parents?
>>FEY: Kids.
No, kids who were in rehab.
>>NOORY: They were
in rehab, too?
>>FEY: Yes.
And I said to my mom, how can
you be an alcoholic at 15, 16?
I was so shocked by that.
And I heard this
little voice in my head
that said, pay attention,
this will be important to you.
And I thought, no, I'm not going
to ever walk down that path,
so I never knew what
that voice meant.
Well, years later, I
go through high school,
I go through college, and I'm
about to graduate college.
And I've got a great
job lined up in the city
and all my friends
are going to the city.
And I had this
recurring little thought
in the back of my head
to apply to grad school.
And I was like, why do I
want to go to grad school?
I'm done with school.
And then my advisor told me
about this great program,
where I can apply
to this grad school
and the state of Connecticut
would pay my entire tuition
if I just work as a substitute
teacher during the day.
And I thought, well,
I could do that.
>>NOORY: Great program.
>>FEY: So I go to
this interview,
and it's this tiny little
school out in the middle
of nowhere Connecticut.
And they said,
Samantha, do you have
any experience with addiction?
And I said, well, my dad's
been in AA for eight years.
And they said, well, the
kids who are coming here,
it's a transitioning high
school for kids coming out of--
and they named that exact
rehab center my dad was out.
And they said, have
you ever heard of it?
It's called Arms Acres.
I said, yes, I have heard of it.
And they said, well,
we think, based
on your essay and some
of the work you've
submitted to us, that you have
the knowledge of compassion
to help these students.
And, George, I just knew.
I knew right then that
that was my destined path,
that I wasn't going
to move into the city
and have a free, fun, amazing
time with all my friends.
That I was going to
go to grad school
and become a teacher because
I had that little voice when
I was 14 that told
me, pay attention,
this place will be
important to you.
>>NOORY: Is that
like a goal book?
>>FEY: Yes.
Well, gold books are a
little bit different.
Goal book is when--
a gold book is similar
to a vision board.
It's when you get to become
the co-creator of your life,
and you get to decide
what it is that you
want to bring into your life
so that you're consciously
being aware of our ability
to really bring forth
into our life whatever we want.
I think so many of us give
our power away too easily.
When you work on
creating a goal book,
you want to focus on
three to five goals
that you want to see come
to fruition within the year.
And then you take a picture
that represents that goal,
and you write the goal
underneath that picture
in the present tense.
>>NOORY: You gave us two
pictures of your own goal book.
>>FEY: Yeah.
Yeah, this is from one
of my third goal books.
So I started doing goal
books in grad school.
This one's very old.
As you can see, there's a
little watermark on the paper.
>>NOORY: Who's
that little cutie?
>>FEY: So I cut out a picture--
I was teaching, and I
remember telling my doctor,
I want to get pregnant
in August and deliver
in May so I can
have my summer off,
and she laughed and laughed.
>>NOORY: Is this your baby?
>>FEY: No, this is
the picture I cut out,
and I put in my goal book, and
I said, we have a healthy girl.
And then this is my little
daughter who was born in May.
>>NOORY: Looks like the picture.
>>FEY: Doesn't it look
just like the picture?
Yeah, so I always use that when
I'm teaching my manifesting
classes to show people
how really profound
our subconscious mind is.
If we put out into the universe,
this is what I want to manifest,
it's going to go out
there and seek it for us.
And it's even going to be very
clearly similar to the picture
that you are putting
out into the world.
But think about the pictures
that we're putting out
into the world all the time
without being conscious of it,
when we're being negative.
And so when you create a
goal book or a vision board,
it's reminding yourself to be
positive, to be focused on you
and what's really best
for your soul right now.
>>NOORY: Do you use
free will often?
>>FEY: I think we all
use free will often.
I think we use it every day.
>>NOORY: We should.
>>FEY: We should, yes.
Yes.
Yeah, and I think that when
you're working on manifesting,
you are incorporating your
free will because you're freely
saying to the universe, this is
what I want my life to look like
and this is how I'm
going to take action
steps to make that happen.
>>NOORY: What is our shadow?
>>FEY: Well, I think our shadow
is that side of ourselves that
we're not willing to face
that really represents--
it can be a darker
side, but it can also
be something that you're
just insecure about,
that you're using
to dim your light.
For example, I had
an experience where
I got to meet a lot of
listeners to my podcast,
and they were all
taking pictures with me,
and it felt so wonderful.
And I got back to the hotel
and I called my sister,
and I was like, I had
the most amazing weekend.
I met all these listeners, and
I got to give this great talk.
>>NOORY: It's a great
feeling, isn't it?
>>FEY: It felt great.
And I said, anyway, anyway,
I'm so sorry to go on and on.
How was your weekend?
And she said, Samantha,
stop doing that.
This is a beautiful
moment, celebrate it.
And I thought, why do I do that?
I'm so terrified.
>>NOORY: You cut yourself short?
>>FEY: Yes, all the time.
I'm so afraid to
brag about myself.
And so that was a shadow side
that I had to face and address.
And I don't think it's a
negative thing, necessarily,
but I think I was prizing
being humble way more than I
was really taking just a
moment, even a brief moment,
to pat myself on the back.
And so I had to really
wrestle with that shadow side
and release her and
let her go with love.
>>NOORY: What are what
they call the three
gates to enlightenment?
>>FEY: So there are the
gates of suffering, which
no one wants to go through.
>>NOORY: No.
>>FEY: The gates of compassion
and the gates of joy.
But you can't really--
>>NOORY: Two out
of three's not bad.
>>FEY: Right.
Right.
Exactly.
So a lot of people want to
go right to the gate of joy,
and who can blame them?
And yet, we can't
really understand joy
without understanding
sadness, I think
CS Lewis gave the best speech
on that that I've ever read,
that we live in this
world of duality,
and so in order to
understand happiness,
you do have to
understand sadness.
And so people do
have to understand
that going through
that gate of suffering
is a part of our soul plan.
And in order to have
that sense of joy,
we have to have compassion
for other people.
We have to really understand
that we're all in this together.
So those are the three
gates to enlightenment.
>>NOORY: You've said that
there are four powerful tools
to better our own life story.
What are they?
>>FEY: Yes.
So there are a lot
of-- well, there's
a lot of-- definitely a lot of
powerful tools that we can use.
One of the things that I'm
passionate about telling people
is to stop asking why.
Why did this happen to me?
Why didn't this work out for me?
>>NOORY: Doubtings.
>>FEY: Yes.
Yes.
And instead of
focusing on the why--
people get so stuck
in their past,
and they just kind
of stay there.
I think there's so
many people alive today
that I feel have died years
before they've actually died.
Have you seen people
like that, where they--
>>NOORY: They give up on life.
>>FEY: They just give up.
And I think it's because
they get stuck in the why.
And there's no power in the why.
The power lies in the how.
How can I recover from this?
How can I heal from this?
How can I transform
myself from this?
How can I use this experience
to help other people?
And I think that's
one of the best tools
that we can really use
to enhance our life,
is flipping the lens on
how we view our life.
We all tell ourselves
a story about our life.
Are you going to tell yourself
a sad story, a dramatic story,
a horror story, or are
you going to tell yourself
the real positive, beautiful
story of who you are?
>>NOORY: And we
can control that.
>>FEY: Yes, I think that we can.
The power of our
thoughts is huge.
>>NOORY: How do people find you?
>>FEY: I'm at samanthafey.com.
So they can find all the
stuff that I'm doing there.
Or they can check out my
podcast, Psychic Teachers
and Enlightened Empaths.
>>NOORY: And the
name of your book.
>>FEY: Heavenly Alliance.
So excited to share
it with everyone.
>>NOORY: Good for you, Samantha.
>>FEY: Thank you, George.
Thank you for having me back.
>>NOORY: It's always a pleasure.
Come back again.
>>FEY: I would love it.
>>NOORY: Fascinating
discussion with her.
Every time she's on, I
learn something every day.
But more importantly,
I've learned that we
can control our own destiny.
Do it.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]